if there were cataclysms on earth every
five minutes
living conditions on our planet would be
almost the same
as 4.5 billion years ago back then
seas and oceans boiled lightning struck
everywhere
tectonic plates change their shape lava
flowed from volcanoes
and worse no internet the earth
resembled a vast boiling cauldron
where life was gradually being created
if it starts to boil again
this cauldron could destroy almost all
life on the planet
hmm consecutive cataclysms won't hurt to
pretend
let's imagine shall we good morning
you wake up in a small underground
bunker the seismic sensor indicates that
a seven-point earthquake will start in a
few minutes
you pack a huge waterproof backpack and
go upstairs
the underground bunker is protected from
seismic activity
it moves with the ground so you're safe
here
but you need to leave the shelter
because supplies are low
also yesterday you picked up a radio
signal telling all survivors to go
south immediately the coordinates they
gave aren't far from your location
you have to hurry though before the
landscape changes again
you open the hatch and find yourself in
the middle of the desert
the sun is almost invisible beyond the
gray sky
the ground is shaking but you're not
afraid there are no houses or buildings
nothing to fall on you you keep your
balance perfectly
and the earthquake doesn't knock you off
your feet it's like jumping on a
trampoline
the only danger is the deep chasms in
the ground but you can easily jump over
them
after such an extreme morning warm-up
you decide to have breakfast
you take a tin can out of your backpack
you have a few minutes before the next
disaster
so you eat and remember how your
great-grandfather told you how all this
started
before all of this the planet was
divided into territories called
countries
millions of people lived in them and
then something terrible happened
the tectonic plates started to move and
the air temperature and atmospheric
pressure
began to rapidly change in one day
earthquakes destroyed entire cities
tsunamis and floods washed away the
remaining ruins
volcanic ash blocked the passage of
sunlight
forest fires destroyed almost all
vegetation and eruptions poisoned the
air
only a few people managed to adapt to
such harsh conditions
and you are a lucky duck to be one of
them
as you finish your breakfast you're
distracted by another ground tremor
time to move on many people travel
around the world alone
as they consider it a safer way of life
some people form
small communes but no one ever stays in
one place for too long
your whole life is in motion but you
don't panic
one of the main rules during natural
disasters is to remain calm
so all survivors have steel nerves and
excellent physical training
you run a few miles south and suddenly
smell
something strange you put on a gas mask
the earthquake has created a limnic
eruption
natural carbon dioxide is released from
the ground to the surface
you feel comfortable in a gas mask but
can't run fast while wearing it
far up ahead you see a green forest a
rare place that was not affected by
fires
you take off the gas mask and go to the
tree to take shelter in the shade from
the scorching sun
this green area is rich in vegetation
colorful flowers strawberries
and many other berries grow here but
you're concerned
such fertile land comes from being near
volcanoes
it spews underground magma rich in
vitamins and minerals
so vegetation grows you can see a high
mountain in the distance
this is the volcano an underground push
occurs again
and provokes an eruption you gather
strawberries and run away from this
place as far as possible
lava pours from the volcano's mouth and
makes a fire in the forest
you unhook a folding scooter with a
motor from your backpack
and drive away from the fiery mountain
as fast as you can
the sky is covered with volcanic ash but
this is not for law
a strong wind flows grows with each
passing second
you realize a hurricane is moving in
your direction
you take out a small shovel and dig a
hole in the ground
the soil is dry but you have enough
strength to dig a small ravine in a
couple of minutes
you dive into the shelter and cover
yourself with a protective tent
the hurricane blows the volcanic ash in
different directions
and the air becomes clear again but the
fire doesn't stop
the wind spreads through the forest you
get out of the ravine and put on the gas
mask again
there's a lot of smoke around and it's
unbearably hot
you know the hurricane couldn't just
appear without any reason
hurricanes are formed when warm moist
air collides with the sea surface
and rises to the sky so there's water
nearby
great because you're thirsty and want to
cool down
a loud sound erupts behind you you turn
around
a massive wave of water approaches the
fire
without panic you take your life jacket
out of your backpack
remove your gas mask and put on a diving
mask and fins
the wave blows you off your feet but you
don't drown
over the years of survival you have
learned to swim very well
you grab a passing tree and wait
patiently for the flood to be replaced
by another natural disaster
for five minutes you sail under a black
stormy sky that sparkles with lightning
despite the waves you try to row south
it's getting pretty cold
you finally see the shore but this is
not a land
but ice a strong wind brought a cold
cyclone
which caused a fast temperature change
it's like you're in antarctica
snow and blizzards are all around it's
freezing
but you take out a thin space blanket
made from foil
and walk slowly south under your clothes
you put crumpled paper
bubble wrap pieces of cotton all this
also helps to warm your body
along the way you collect several
bottles of snow to melt later
icicles form on your face and you can't
see because of the snow storm
suddenly the snow begins to squish under
your feet
the ice melts and turns into water a hot
stream of air blows into your face
you find yourself on hard dry ground
looking up at the sky
then at your watch five minutes pass
and the sky is again covered with black
clouds
you take a metal plate out of your
backpack and cover your head with it
a few seconds later you are hit by heavy
rain and hail
giant balls of ice knock on the metal
shield but you go
calmly and even with a smile on your
face the ground becomes wet and loose
from icy rocks
when the hail ends you pull out all the
heat insulating materials from under
your clothes
and hide them in your backpack then you
lay out a few long spokes of steel
the spokes are wrapped with copper wire
you connect the spokes to each other
making one long antenna you stick it in
the ground
and run away after the hail from the
rain clouds
lightning strikes the ground more
precisely it hits the lightning rod
you've just built
you wait for the storm to end then take
the lightning rod apart
and return it to your backpack an
intense heat begins
you drink some melted snow and break
your way through the desert
the earth trembles and your adventure
begins again
earthquakes carbon dioxide fires floods
snowfall tsunamis lightning and again
and again
and again with the help of a compass you
continue your journey
and reach your goal a few months later
you see a long
antenna sticking out of the ground this
is a place mark for entering an
underground city
the city is built from dozens of massive
bunkers connected to each other by
tunnels
the city walls don't allow radiation to
pass through
and they don't bend from daily
earthquakes
people learn to extract energy from the
ground the earth's core gives heat
this heat boils water then steam is
formed and electricity is created at
special stations
people get water from underground lakes
and rivers
instead of the sun ultraviolet lamps are
installed everywhere
which provide people and plants with
necessary light
natural disasters happen on earth every
five minutes
but humanity still has a lot of space
underground